.TH TMUX-RESTORE-SESSION 1 "2026-06-30" "tmux-tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tmux-restore-session \- restore a tmux session saved by tmux-save-session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tmux-restore-session
.RB [ -d
.IR dir | --dir
.IR dir ]
.RB [ --no-attach ]
.RI [ session-name ]
.br
.B tmux-restore-session
.RB [ -d
.IR dir | --dir
.IR dir ]
.B --list
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tmux-restore-session
runs an executable restore script produced by
.BR tmux-save-session (1).
When no session name is supplied, it restores the only saved session directly
or opens an
.BR fzf (1)
picker when multiple saved sessions exist.
.PP
After restoring, the command attaches from outside tmux and switches the
current client from inside tmux unless
.B --no-attach
is set.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -d ", --dir " dir
Directory where restore scripts are read.
.TP
.BR -l ", " --list
List saved sessions and exit.
.TP
.B --no-attach
Restore without attaching or switching clients.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show usage.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TMUX_TOOLS_SESSION_DIR
Default session directory. If unset, the default is
an absolute
.IR $XDG_DATA_HOME/tmux/sessions ,
then
.IR $HOME/.local/share/tmux/sessions .
Empty and relative XDG data paths are ignored. If neither base directory is
available, the command reports an error.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The session was restored or listed.
.TP
.B 1
The requested saved session already exists.
.TP
.B 2
The command reported a usage or selection error, such as invalid arguments or no
matching saved session.
.TP
.B other
The picker, restore script, or attach command failed and its nonzero status was
propagated.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tmux-save-session (1),
.BR fzf (1),
.BR tmux (1)
