.TH TMUX-CLIP-PASTE 1 "2026-06-30" "tmux-tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tmux-clip-paste \- paste popup-selected text into the current tmux pane
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tmux-clip-paste
.RB [ -f
.IR file | --file
.IR file ]
.RB [ -t
.IR pane | --pane
.IR pane ]
.br
.B tmux-clip-paste
.RB [ -f
.IR file | --file
.IR file ]
.RB [ -t
.IR pane | --pane
.IR pane ]
.B --path
.br
.B tmux-clip-paste
.RB [ -f
.IR file | --file
.IR file ]
.RB [ -t
.IR pane | --pane
.IR pane ]
.B --publish
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tmux-clip-paste
loads a handoff file into the tmux paste buffer, pastes it into the current
pane, and removes the file. It is useful when a tmux popup or picker must write
its selected text before tmux can paste after the popup closes.
.PP
The default path is isolated by tmux server and pane inside a private per-user
runtime directory. Producers should pipe selected text to
.B --publish
so the complete payload replaces the handoff file atomically.
Consumers load the payload into a unique named tmux buffer and explicitly
paste it into the resolved pane with tmux's delete-after-paste operation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -f ", --file " file
Read selected text from
.IR file .
.TP
.BI -t ", --pane " pane
Use the tmux pane ID
.I pane
for path isolation and pasting. If omitted,
.B TMUX_PANE
is used when set; otherwise tmux's current pane is resolved once and retained.
.TP
.B --path
Print the default handoff file path and exit.
.TP
.B --publish
Read standard input and atomically publish it as the next handoff payload.
Atomic publication assumes other users cannot rename or replace entries in the
handoff file's parent directory. The private default directory provides that
boundary; an intentionally shared override directory does not.
Consumers atomically claim one payload before loading it. A newer publication
therefore remains available for the next invocation. On a load or paste
failure, the claimed payload always remains at the private path named in the
diagnostic. A best-effort hard link also restores the public path when it is
still vacant; that convenience never removes the private claim or overwrites a
newer payload. Only non-symlink regular files are accepted as handoffs. An
interrupted client checks whether its unique buffer still exists to distinguish
a committed paste from a retryable failure. After a committed paste, local
cleanup failures are reported as warnings without changing the successful
status.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show usage.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TMUX_TOOLS_CLIP_PASTE_FILE
Override the default handoff file path.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
bind P display-popup -E 'your-picker | tmux-clip-paste --pane "#{pane_id}" --publish' \\; run-shell 'tmux-clip-paste --pane "#{pane_id}"'
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Text was pasted, a payload was published, an empty handoff file was removed,
no handoff file was available, or the handoff path was printed.
.TP
.B 1
A runtime operation failed, including tmux identity, buffer, filesystem,
claim, or publication operations.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tmux (1)
