.TH WEZTERM-SWITCH-TAB 1 "2026-07-04" "tmux-tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wezterm-switch-tab \- request a parent WezTerm tab switch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wezterm-switch-tab
.RI [ next | previous ]
.RI [ tty ]
.br
.B wezterm-switch-tab
.RI [ next | previous ]
.B --parent
.RI [ tty ]
.br
.B wezterm-switch-tab
.RI [ next | previous ]
.B --tty
.I tty
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wezterm-switch-tab
emits a WezTerm OSC 1337
.B SetUserVar
request named
.B DOT_SWITCH_TAB
to the target terminal device. The value contains the requested direction and a
nonce, encoded as required by WezTerm user variables.
.PP
Any terminal program or script can call this command when it has a terminal
device to write to. A common use is a tmux binding that switches tmux windows
when the current session has multiple windows, but calls
.B wezterm-switch-tab
when the current session has only one window.
.PP
Because the command writes ordinary terminal escape sequences to a terminal
device, it works through SSH and remote tmux sessions when the escape reaches a
local WezTerm window.
.PP
With
.BR --parent ,
the request is named
.B DOT_PARENT_SWITCH_TAB
instead. This is for one-window tmux sessions attached inside another tmux: a
cooperating WezTerm config can translate the request into a private key
sequence for the parent tmux layer instead of switching the WezTerm tab
directly.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B next
Request the next WezTerm tab. This is the default.
.TP
.B previous
Request the previous WezTerm tab.
.TP
.I tty
Terminal device to write to.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --tty " tty"
Terminal device to write to.
.TP
.B --parent
Ask WezTerm to bubble the switch to the parent tmux layer.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show usage.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B WEZTERM_SWITCH_TAB_TTY
Default terminal device when no
.I tty
argument or
.B --tty
option is supplied.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The request was written.
.TP
.B 1
The target terminal device could not be written.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tmux (1),
.BR wezterm (1)
