.TH WEZTERM-MOVE-TAB 1 "2026-07-04" "tmux-tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
wezterm-move-tab \- request a parent WezTerm tab move
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wezterm-move-tab
.RI [ left | right ]
.RI [ tty ]
.br
.B wezterm-move-tab
.RI [ left | right ]
.B --parent
.RI [ tty ]
.br
.B wezterm-move-tab
.RI [ left | right ]
.B --tty
.I TTY
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wezterm-move-tab
writes a WezTerm OSC 1337
.B SetUserVar
escape sequence to a terminal device. The request sets
.B DOT_MOVE_TAB
to a direction payload with a nonce, encoded as required by WezTerm user
variables, so an outer WezTerm config can move the current tab left or right.
.PP
This is useful from tmux or SSH sessions where calling the local WezTerm CLI is
not possible, but escape sequences written to the controlling terminal still
reach the local WezTerm window.
.PP
With
.BR --parent ,
the request is named
.B DOT_PARENT_MOVE_TAB
instead. This is for one-window tmux sessions attached inside another tmux: a
cooperating WezTerm config can translate the request into a private key
sequence for the parent tmux layer instead of moving the WezTerm tab directly.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B left
Move the current WezTerm tab left.
.TP
.B right
Move the current WezTerm tab right. This is the default.
.TP
.I tty
Terminal device to write to. Defaults to
.B WEZTERM_MOVE_TAB_TTY
when set, then
.B /dev/tty.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --tty " TTY"
Write the OSC request to
.IR TTY .
.TP
.B --parent
Ask WezTerm to bubble the move to the parent tmux layer.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show usage.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B WEZTERM_MOVE_TAB_TTY
Default target terminal device when no tty argument or
.B --tty
option is supplied.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The request was written.
.TP
.B 1
The target terminal device could not be written.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
wezterm-move-tab left /dev/ttys001
wezterm-move-tab right --tty /dev/ttys001
wezterm-move-tab --parent left /dev/ttys001
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tmux (1),
.BR wezterm (1),
.BR wezterm-switch-tab (1)
